
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Google Optimize  
  Page hiding snippet  
 
 
  End Google Optimize  
  Google Tag Manager  
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [if lte IE 9]><body class="ie9"><![endif] 
 [if gte IE 10]><body class="ie"><![endif] 
 
 Skip to main content 
  Google Tag Manager (noscript)  
 
  End Google Tag Manager (noscript)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          New York
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A partial pizza from Oma Grassa covered with basil leaves.  
 Robert Sietsema/Eater NY 
 
 
 
 
 
 Filed under: 
 
 
 
 Sietsema's Picks 
 
 
 
 
 The Pies Are Electric at Brooklyn’s Newest Pizzeria 
 Fort Greene’s Oma Grassa turns out dazzling pizza 
 
 
    
      by
       
 Robert Sietsema 
 
 
 
  Oct  6, 2022,  4:32pm EDT
 
 
 
 Photography by Robert Sietsema 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this story 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Facebook 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this on Twitter 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share 
 All sharing options for: 
 The Pies Are Electric at Brooklyn’s Newest Pizzeria 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pocket 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flipboard 
 
 
 
 
 
 Email 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 New York City is the pizza capital of the world. With our indigenous coal ovens, stacked ovens, and focaccia stylings as bedrock, we absorb pizzas from different parts of the United States, Italy, and the world — including  Argentina  and  France  (though Tunisia’s canned-tuna-and-boiled-egg pizza still eludes us).  
 New York is also a place where new styles of pizza readily take hold, as demonstrated by  Oma Grassa , a new Fort Greene pizzeria that opened in July, where pizzaiolo Adam Baumgart is using what’s becoming a coveted appliance for new-wave pizza makers: the electric oven. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The signage at Oma Grassa is minimal. 
 
 
 
 Oma Grassa occupies a flatiron-shaped building with plenty of picture windows on the corner of Fulton and South Portland. The room is spare and airy, with black-and-white beehive floor tiles and hanging Tiffany lightshades in the design. A pair of stacked pizza ovens commands attention, located behind a counter in the middle of the flatiron’s rear wall. 
 In pizza baking Baumgart’s oven is unique in that it’s electric, not gas or wood-fired, and set at 650 °F— over 100°F hotter than conventional gas ovens, bisecting the average temperature of gas and wood. What’s more, the top and bottom of each oven can be set at different temperatures, and the floor is stone, which absorbs and radiates heat. Oma Grassa is one of a handful of restaurants that use an electric oven for pizza, including Brooklyn’s   Leo  and  L’Industrie.   
 So what difference does this oven make? It crisps the bottom of a pie that might otherwise be — in the style of Naples pizza — soggy, allowing a more-profuse array of toppings on a firm foundation. Basically, this method creates a hybrid style of pizza halfway between Naples and New York. The electric oven also guarantees a higher level of precision and consistency where pizza baking is concerned. This is pizza catapulted into the modern era. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cupped ’roni, and lots of it. 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Anchovy is the best pie in the place! 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oma Grassa’s cherry tomato pizza is sweet and cheesy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The pie called simply “Greens.” 
 
 
 
 Baumgart, whose resume includes such estimable spots as Prune and Roman’s, presides over the dining room like an actor in a one-person proscenium, twirling the sourdough crusts, strewing ingredients, and — peel in hand — wrangling pies in the oven. Sometimes he even delivers the finished product to the tables with a flourish. 
 Eight pies are currently available, and I tried five in two visits. The margherita ($20) is something of a default, and always the perfect test of a pizzeria anyway. The cheese is more dense than usual, with pecorino tweaking the mozzarella, and the tomato sauce tasting slightly of oregano. These are generous 14-inch pies, and one would easily feed two.  
 Even better is the anchovy pie ($19), a cheeseless exercise in powerful flavors, also containing capers and olives, making it like puttanesca. I loved it enough that I was still thinking about it on the subway afterward. Using the ubiquitous cupping ’roni, the pepperoni pie was fine, though a little  too charred for my taste  on one occasion. A better choice was the pie peppered with cherry tomatoes — adding an element of sweetness, as well as some creamy ricotta for a dairy tour-de-force.  
 Though Baumgart’s toppings are largely conventional, there’s an unusual pie that comes with three cheeses, roasted garlic, and lemon, smothered at the last moment with greens that’s quite good. Oma Grassa also offers a selection of add-ons, including fennel sausage and pickled chiles, but use these sparingly because the pies are already flavor-balanced and well-conceived. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oma Grassa’s oddball pickle plate. 
 
 
 Only three apps are offered, but these show off Baumgart’s experience as a chef. Most unusual is a plate of pickled vegetables, olives, and a boiled egg — one can hardly imagine a better thing to nibble while waiting for your pizza; its main advantage lies in it being as different from a pizza as possible. At $9, it’s also a steal.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A glass of the Domaine Redon orange wine “Sensitive” goes nicely with the anchovy pie. 
 
 
 
 The other two starters are also enticing. The one I tried was a massive salad ($15) that was like a Caesar but without the anchovies. The perfect lettuce leaves arrive uncut, encouraging you to pick them up with your fingers. The vinaigrette is simple and classic, coating each leaf but not weighing it down. All the apps can be shared with a group with a bottle of wine — another notable feature of Oma Grassa. 
 Yes, there are other pizzerias that function as natural wine bars, but the wines here are particularly well-matched to pizza. In Naples, most people drink a Coke with their pizza, anyway, but those who drink wine often pick a chilled and fizzy red. Thus Oma Grassa offers a skin-contact Lambrusco ($50), which has a cherry-cola nose, but other quirky wines are even better, like Primo Incontro (glass $14, bottle $56), a straw-yellow bubbly white from the grape that makes Soave that’s been been double-fermented and tastes of its volcanic soil. Let the bubbles tickle your nose while you chow down on Baumgart’s magnificent pies. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Adam Baumgart,  baker and owner of Oma Grassa in Fort Greene. 
 Robert Sietsema/Eater NYd 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Sign up for the
        
          newsletter
        
       
      Eater NY
     
 Sign up for our newsletter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thanks for signing up! 
 Check your inbox for a welcome email. 
 
 
 
 
 Email  (required) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again. 
 
 
      By submitting your email, you agree to our  Terms  and  Privacy Notice . You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google  Privacy Policy  and  Terms of Service  apply.
      
     
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oma Grassa 
 
 
 753 Fulton Street, Brooklyn, NY 11217 
 
 Visit Website 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NYC Pop-Up Restaurants 
 
 The Hottest Pop-Ups in NYC Right Now 
 
 
 
 
 Awards 
 
 5 Winners and 3 Losers From the 2022 Michelin Awards in New York City 
 
 
 
 
 A.M. Intel 
 
 Second City, Chicago’s Famed Comedy Venue, Is Opening in Williamsburg With a Restaurant  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign up for the
          
            newsletter
           
          Sign up for the Eater New York newsletter
         
 
          The freshest news from the local food world
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thanks for signing up! 
 Check your inbox for a welcome email. 
 
 
 
 
 Email  (required) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again. 
 
 
      By submitting your email, you agree to our  Terms  and  Privacy Notice . You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google  Privacy Policy  and  Terms of Service  apply.
      
     
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 
 close 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chorus 
 
 
 
 
 Terms of Use 
 Privacy Notice 
 Cookie Policy 
 Do Not Sell My Personal Info 
 Licensing FAQ 
 Accessibility 
 Platform Status 
 
 
 Contact 
 Send Us a Tip 
 Community Guidelines 
 Masthead 
 Ethics Statement 
 Press Room 
 Newsletters 
 How to Pitch 
 
 
 
 Vox Media 
 Vox Media logo. 
 Advertise with us 
 Jobs @ Vox Media 
      
      © 2022  Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved
      
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 New York 
 
 
 Share this story 
 
 
 
 
 
                Twitter
               
 
 
 
 
 
 
                Facebook
               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Phonograph  
 
 
  End Phonograph  
 
 [if !IE]>  
 
 
  <![endif] 
